Have you ever been misjudged?
When Brother Parkin was serving
in Puerto Rico, it happened to him.
Brother Knorr came down from Brooklyn
for the very first international convention
on the island.
It was an exciting time for everyone,
and Brother Parkin did his best
to get everything well-organized.
But after the missionary meeting,
Brother Knorr assumed that transportation
had not been arranged
for everyone to get back to the hotel
—although, in fact, it had.
And later he gave Brother Parkin
some strong counsel
about being better organized.
He even said that he was disappointed in him.
Well, Brother Parkin thought:
‘That’s it.
I’m out of here.’
And he even told
his wife later to start packing.
But at the time, he says
that he didn’t argue with Brother Knorr
or try to justify himself.
Yet, he admits that he did feel misjudged
and was upset afterward for quite a while.
Has something like that ever happened to you?
Likely it has.
It usually happens to all of us at some time.
When others misjudge us,
we might initially get upset,
feel betrayed, or become
discouraged for a while.
We might worry that others
don’t see us as smart enough,
strong enough, spiritual enough.
And what they said
may threaten our whole identity.
So when something like that happens,
what will help us to stay loyal to Jehovah?
Open your Bibles with me to Psalm 37.
The writer here is King David,
and he well knew what
it was like to be upset by injustice.
But more important,
what he wrote is inspired of God,
so we can trust that it can help us.
Let’s start reading with verse 3.
He says:
“Trust in Jehovah and do what is good;
reside in the earth,
and act with faithfulness.”
When someone misunderstands us,
our first instinct
may be to prove ourselves right,
but usually that isn’t very helpful.
David says we should focus
on Jehovah and keep doing good.
Be faithful, be humble,
continue caring for your assignments.
Jesus once said that “wisdom
is proved righteous by its works.”
And many times, it’s our works over time
(instead of trying to straighten
the other person out)
that win back their heart and our reputation.
Why can we trust Jehovah
to help us in these situations?
Well, remember what happened
to him in the garden of Eden?
Jehovah based everything in creation
—his entire sovereignty—
on love.
After he made Jesus,
they made everything else together.
As each new angel and human was created,
Jesus saw just how Jehovah treated them,
and that made him love Jehovah even more.
But then, as we know,
Satan slandered Jehovah.
He didn’t challenge his position or power;
he challenged his motives—God’s love.
Now can you imagine how hurtful
that was to Jehovah and Jesus?
And this raised all sorts of questions.
How many others
would believe Satan’s accusations?
What would happen to Adam’s offspring?
How would Jehovah’s reputation
be cleared, and so on?
Now, Jehovah is the Almighty,
and he took immediate steps
to resolve those issues,
but it has taken
a lot of time to resolve them.
So if someone misjudges us,
do you think Jehovah
knows what we’re going through?
He sure does.
He knows exactly what it feels like.
And as David says
later in verse 18 in this psalm:
“Jehovah is aware
of what the blameless go through.”
Let’s read verse 4.
He says: “Find exquisite delight in Jehovah,
and he will grant you
the desires of your heart.”
David is urging us here
to find safety in Jehovah,
because when we feel safe,
it’s easier for us to hear
what others are saying to us
or be less inclined to push
our own views or justify ourself.
In other psalms,
David talks about how Jehovah
brought him into a place of safety.
And really, who makes us feel safer
than Jehovah does?
If we are in Jehovah’s place of safety,
then we can hear almost anything
without becoming defensive.
Verse 5:
“Commit your way to Jehovah.”
David says: “Rely on him,
and he will act in your behalf.”
In other words, let Jehovah lead you.
Once we fully commit ourselves to Jehovah,
we won’t feel lost or abandoned
when we have setbacks in life.
We know that he’ll continue
to guide and bless us
just as he did Joseph
and Hannah and David and others.
Verses 23 and 24 of this psalm say:
“Jehovah guides the steps of a man
when he finds pleasure in his way.
“Although he may fall,
“he will not be hurled down,
for Jehovah supports him by the hand.”
Verse 6:
“He will make your righteousness
shine like daybreak,
and your justice like the midday sun.”
So Jehovah will either vindicate you
or, at the very least,
reassure you of his love.
He knows our motives and intentions,
so if a relative or friend
or an overseer misjudges us,
Jehovah will make his own decision.
The Watchtower once said that if Jehovah
wants to vindicate us in some matter,
he can do so at the proper time.
And if he chooses to do that,
it will be obvious.
One translation says in this verse
that it will become as clear
as “the noonday sun” that you are right.
But not all situations
get resolved in that way, do they?
We love to hear those stories
about Joseph and Hannah and David,
where the underdog ends up on top.
But what about Mephibosheth,
Jeremiah, or the apostle Paul?
Were their reputations ever completely
cleared during their lifetime?
So it makes no sense
to hold on to hurt feelings
until Jehovah vindicates us.
It’s so much better
to resolve the matter now.
Notice verse 7:
“Keep silent before Jehovah
and wait expectantly for him.
Do not be upset by the man
who succeeds in carrying out his schemes.”
The bottom line is that we can’t stay upset.
What, though, if we get counsel
that doesn’t seem to be 100 percent correct,
like in Brother Parkin’s case?
Of course, if you’re accused
of something serious, you should speak up,
at least to satisfy your conscience.
But more often,
after you pray about it
and think about what was said,
why not just apply what you can?
Most counsel has at least something
that we can benefit from.
And if there is something
that still doesn’t seem to fit,
then wait “patiently,”
as the footnote on verse 7 says,
for Jehovah to clarify matters
or make things right.
In most cases, the only way
for misunderstandings to get cleared up
is with the passing of time.
I like this quote from a brother years ago.
He said: “If God has been willing
to wait six thousand years
“for his true character to be made manifest,
“should not we be able
to wait a few brief years
“to have our motives and lives,
now so sadly misunderstood,
cleared of every misconception?”
That’s the key, isn’t it?
Focus on Jehovah,
and we can be happy
even when we’re misunderstood.
Always remember that he knows
exactly how you feel,
and in due time, he will act in your behalf.
How did things turn out
for Brother Parkin and Brother Knorr?
Well, in his life story, Brother Parkin says:
‘The next time Maxine and I saw him
(about six months later),
he invited us to his room
and cooked a meal for us.’
Well, it looks like Jehovah
gave Brother Parkin
“the requests of [his] heart,” right?
In fact, he told me recently
that he and Brother Knorr
became the best of friends.